Before we jump in, today's video was
created in partnership with Adobe. And
so throughout today's episode, I will be
using tools like Adobe Firefly and Adobe
Express in my workflow. And you can read
more information about our partnership,
including a full disclosure in the
description below. If someone asks me
what is the best image editor for
beginners in 2026, my answer is Adobe
Firefly. As someone who is quite a
beginner photo editor themselves,
someone who is not very tech-savvy, and
someone who gets very easily overwhelmed
by technology, using Adobe Firefly as my
main image editor and Adobe Express as a
supplemental support tool has been a
real gamecher. Whether you're trying to
edit images for your business, create
designs for your social media, or you're
exploring graphic design and photo
editing more seriously, the best tool
isn't necessarily the tool with the most
features. In my opinion, it's the tool
that will help you start creating faster
and increasing your output without a
steep learning curve and without having
to watch 40 tutorial videos just to
figure out the basics of using the app.
And I think that's where Adobe Firefly
really stands out. It gives you AI
powered image generation, creative
editing tools, and the ability to
experiment quickly so that you can get
results, you can create content, you can
design graphics, and edit your photos
with ease at scale. Basically, with
these tools, you're able to get a
professionallook output without having
to have professional knowledge or years
of experience. And like I mentioned
earlier, Adobe Firefly becomes so much
more powerful when you pair it with
Adobe Express for social media content
generation, quick asset designs, and
being able to reuse their templates. And
so, in today's episode, I'm going to
walk you through how to use these two
tools in combination as what I would
call the best image editor for beginners
in 2026. Let's get into it. Before we
talk about the specific capabilities of
these tools and how you can use them, I
think we should take a step back and I
should answer how have I decided what is
the best beginner image generator? Like
what really goes into something being
for beginners and right for the average
person in my audience? Well, I don't
know about you, but when I scroll
through my social media feed nowadays,
I'm feeling quite an overwhelm, quite a
fatigue with download this app, check
out this app, you have to try this tool.
Especially because when I do try these
tools out or when I do download one of
these apps, it feels like there's an
entirely new learning curve. Like
there's no guidance. And like I
mentioned earlier, I'm now having to
watch 40 tutorials just to figure out
the basics of using this app. And that
extra workload, that extra mental load
of having to figure out how to use an
entirely new app slows down the process
and kind of defeats the purpose of
however efficient or however useful this
new app may be in the first place. I
think any tool that is good for
beginners, and I don't want you to feel
shame when I say the word beginners
because like I said, I consider myself a
beginner editor, it really has to meet
the following three criteria. Number
one, it needs a low barrier to getting
set up or getting started. Like I've
said a few times, you shouldn't have to
watch hours of tutorials. You shouldn't
have to buy an entire course just to
figure out how to use this app. It
should be pretty intuitive and pretty
easy to get set up. Number two, it needs
to give you room to play around and
experiment. Because while AI can
definitely help us be more efficient and
work smarter and not harder and it can
help us scale our output, I think the
problem with a lot of especially AI
image editors is that it ends up
creating outputs that look the same over
and over and over again. But it's that
experimentation and that taste and that
creativity and originality that allows
you to be unique. And so there need to
be enough freedom and flexibility so
that not every single output looks the
exact same. Basically, the tool needs to
give room for experimentation. And then
third, the tool needs to be able to grow
with you because it sucks when you learn
a tool and you get really used to it and
then it doesn't quite have all of the
features that you've been looking for. I
know that personally I've been running
into that issue with some of the editing
apps that I've been using where I used
them for years and I got good at them,
but then there were certain tools or
certain new AI features that were
available on more advanced apps that
weren't quite in my beginner friendly
apps. And so that's why I'm a big fan
of, not to spoil what we're going to be
talking about today, but I guess I've
already spoiled it a few times, Adobe
Firefly and Adobe Express, because even
though they're great for beginners, and
even though you can get set up quickly,
and even though there's room for
experimentation, they can also grow with
you. So as you start to say, "Oh, hey, I
want to do that really advanced thing,
or hey, I want to mask this, or hey, I
want to do layerbased image editing, and
hey, I want to control this aspect." it
is able to grow with you and it has
those tools baked in, but it doesn't
force feed them down your throat when
you're first getting started. And with
all that being said, a fourth box that
Adobe Firefly checks off when we're
talking about the best image editors for
beginners in 2026 is that Adobe Firefly
helps solve the problem of I don't know
where to start. Whenever I have coaching
calls with newbies or beginners or
people who are just kind of finding
their footing on Instagram or on social
media, they often don't even know what
buttons to press first. they don't know
where to get started or or where to
begin when it comes to content creation
and image editing and video editing and
all of that. And so Firefly helps you
solve that problem. It helps you solve
that problem number one through text to
image where you can describe what you
want the image to look like. You can put
in a prompt. You can describe what you
want the graphic design to be and then
it will generate it for you which saves
you a bunch of time because then you
don't have to like imagine what it's
going to look like and then create it.
you can just imagine what it's going to
look like using your own creativity and
then have Firefly create it for you. So,
it again allows you to create faster and
more efficiently and just get your ideas
onto paper or I guess digital paper. It
allows you to get them onto your screen
and then you can work with them from
there. It also has a tool called
generative fill where you can remove or
add objects to certain areas of your
screen. So, for example, if you're
watching this video right now, if I had
a photo of what's on the screen, I could
remove this bar. And in fact, I will put
up a video right now of how easy it is
to remove that bar from a photograph. I
could also add in a simple text prompt
to generate a fill or generate an
addition to the image by swapping out
that bar maybe with a house plant or a
lamp. And again, it does all of this
quickly so that you're able to ideulate.
you're able to play around with
different brainstormed ideas and get a
sense for what you do like and what you
don't because as I've said before, your
unique taste and preferences and
personality are something that will
always set you apart from AI. And then
the third tool that I know I'm a really
big fan of is generative expand because
sometimes I take photos vertically and I
need them to be landscapes that I can
put them in a YouTube video or vice
versa. I take them horizontally and I'm
like, wait, I need that to be taller so
that I can use it in maybe an image in
one of my carousels on Instagram. And so
I use the generative expand which is
able to kind of like broaden out your
images, make them taller or wider or
just fill in the space, but it fills it
in in a really smart way. Like it's able
to figure out what would have been in
that space and you can always regenerate
it or edit what it does put in that
space so that again you can take one
image and use it in a variety of
different ways. And now I know the title
of this video was best image generator
in 2026, but Adobe Firefly is also a
really powerful video generator as well.
It has text to video capabilities and
image to video capabilities. And so you
can use it to not only create mockups
and to create images, but then to turn
those images into actual videos. And
Adobe has a lot of really cool AI tools
baked into it. I have them written down
here. It has VO 3.1, Runway Gen 4.5,
Cling, it has Ray 3. All of these are
different AI video generators that you
have access to inside the Adobe Firefly
suite so that you actually have multiple
AI tools that have different styles and
slightly different capabilities all
baked into one. So again, you don't need
to learn new tools. You don't need to
add more tools to your system. You can
just use Adobe Firefly because it's
great for beginners and still have
access to all of these other advanced
tools as well. Oh, and I should mention
something that absolutely matters that a
lot of people overlook when it comes to
AI generated video and/or photo is that
oftentimes it's not commercially safe or
it's been trained on non-licensed data.
It's been basically stolen data from
other artists and content creators. But
what's awesome about Adobe Firefly and
really the entire Adobe ecosystem is
that it was trained on their own native
content that they have approval for. And
so anything that you create, photo,
video, or otherwise, as long as it was
created with Adobe Fireflyy's generative
AI models, it is designed for commercial
safety. Now, one Adobe Firefly feature
that I want to dive a little bit more
deeply into because I think it's going
to be very useful for you as a beginner
is what they call Adobe Firefly boards.
What's really cool about Adobe Firefly
boards and what differentiates it from a
lot of other AI image generators is that
most other AI image generators are just
focused on the output. You put in the
prompt and but it spits out the output.
But what's cool about boards is it
actually involves you in the creative
process. So you can basically kind of
like a a reference board or kind of like
picture like a giant cork board that
you're putting on your wall and you're
pinning up a bunch of different cutouts
from magazines and clippings from
newspapers and little things that you
saw, little sources of inspiration,
right? You're putting it all on a big
corkboard in your room and you're going
to use that to inspire you for your next
painting that you're making or
something. That's kind of like how Adobe
Firefly boards works. You can collect
all of these different sources of
inspiration, all these different
materials, all of these different
elements. You can have it generate some
of these elements for you. And then you
can use that or bring it all together to
create the final output. It is your
taste, your personality, your
preferences, the things that make you
you, the things that you're like, "Oo, I
really like that and I really don't that
are going to differentiate you and
differentiate your content from
everything else that is being created
with AI." And so Adobe Firefly boards
allows you to kind of bring that all
into one place. You don't have to just
like keep it in your mind and then hope
you're good at communicating those
preferences and ideas to the AI. You can
instead bring it all into one board,
whether it's a color swatch or a
screenshot or an image or a note or any
other generated visuals that you've
already made with AI. You can bring it
all into one place and then use that to
generate new ideas, to generate new
outputs. And then you can edit and
refine and build off of this taste that
is uniquely yours. If you're a visual
person or someone who loves planning or
someone who likes visualizing the
outcome or even the steps in the process
before the outcome appears, then Adobe
Fireflyy's boards is going to be your
favorite thing. Besides boards, there's
a few other features that I want to
highlight when you're first getting
started so that you know what they are,
how to use them, and to even look for
them in the first place. I already
mentioned this one, but the most
accessible way to kind of get in there
and start getting your hands dirty is
the text to image generation. It's
pretty self-explanatory, right? You can
put in prompts and describe what image
you're looking for, and then it will use
AI to create said image. And then, like
I've already mentioned, you can use
Adobe Fireflyy's additional tools to
edit it a little bit further, refine it,
tweak it, regenerate. But that's really
the best thing if you're just a brand
new beginner is just get in there and
start brain dumping what it is you want
to create and what you want the visuals
to look like directly to Adobe Firefly.
Then there's the three generative tools
that I've already talked about.
Generative fill, which allows you to
basically add things to the image, but
also not just add them to the image like
copy and paste, but add them to the
image in a way that they actually look
like they were meant to be in the image.
Then generative remove, where you can
remove objects or remove unwanted
clutter or remove unwanted things from
your images and then have it use smart
AI technology to figure out what would
be there instead like what should it
look like. It doesn't just like blur
things out. And then generative expand,
which we talked about earlier, which can
allow you to expand the images and
resize them so they look right for
different social media use cases. But
the thing I want to challenge you to do
in all of this is to reprompt and edit
your prompt and to stay in the AI tool
rather than taking it out. I think we
can have a tendency because of probably
just how we've been trained to use AI
for the first few years of its existence
that when it gives us an output, we then
take the output and then we massage it
ourselves. Like you take the image that
Firefly creates and then you take it
into some other editing app that you've
used before and you retweak it. You
remodify it. I want to encourage you to
the best of your ability to not do that.
If Firefly creates an image for you
that's like 90% there, don't then save
it to your device and either just like
accept that it's good enough and it's
fine. It's not quite what I want, but
it's fine. And don't also take it into a
different editing app and then like
tweak it and massage it and uh that's a
weird word, but just you know what I'm
saying? Like edit a little bit more.
Instead, ask Firefly to regenerate. give
Firefly the feedback that you want or
give it the changes that you want to
take place and allow it to correct its
images because that's how it's going to
learn to be better and that's how it's
going to learn to execute on your vision
more precisely the first time in the
future. Now, with all that being said,
let's talk about how Adobe Express fits
into the ecosystem with Adobe Firefly.
If Adobe Firefly is where you create and
edit the images, then Adobe Express is
where you really put them to work.
Basically, Adobe Express is where you
can take the images and the things that
you create in Firefly and turn them into
things that are actually ready to be
posted. Whether it's a carousel or a
promotional graphic or an Instagram
story or whatever that image is that
you've created, you're able to put the
final polishing touches on it and make
sure that it is set up correctly for
whatever social media use case you plan
on using it for. And here's the four
ways that it does that. Number one,
templates. It has hundreds of thousands
of pre-esigned, professionallymade
templates for different specific social
media use cases, reals, covers, carousel
slides, YouTube thumbnails, so that
again you can use the images and the
things that you've created in Firefly
and plug them into those pre-made
templates so that you can work smarter
and not harder. Express also has text
overlays and different typography
options because admittedly with any AI
tool when you're telling it to add
certain text, it is much easier oftent
times to just like change the font size
on your own. Just go like down a size,
down a size, or play around with
different fonts on your own by selecting
from pre-existing fonts rather than it
is to reprompt the entire image
generator just to make one teeny tiny
little tweak to the text. And so Adobe
Express is where you would take the
image that Firefly has created and add
the text that you want to actually go in
the slideshow and then you can make
those little adjustments. You can retype
the text. You can edit and play with the
different colors much faster than you
would if you were to just constantly be
reprompting. But again, this is still
better than doing what I mentioned
earlier, which is where you like save
what Firefly created and then take it
into a new app. Because Adobe Express is
part of the same Adobe ecosystem, you're
able to kind of like stay in the same
house. Sure, you might be going from
like one room to the next, but you're
not going three blocks down just to edit
the image or add a couple pieces of
text. Third is one-click resizing. And I
know we talked earlier about generative
expand and how you can resize images to
your liking with Firefly, but with Adobe
Express, with just the click of one
button, it knows the pixel size or the
formatting ratio for different social
media outputs like 1 one or 4:5 for an
Instagram carousel or now it's 3:4 for
an Instagram carousel or the 16x9 that's
needed for different vertical ratios.
And so it can just with one click of a
button automatically resize your images
so that they're appropriate for
different social medias. And then fourth
and finally, it has an entire brand kit
that you can build inside of it. So you
can add your colors, your logos, your
fonts, your styles, and all of that. And
it can apply that automatically to the
images that you create so that you're
not having to like remember what was my
color code or make sure that all of it
fits. you're able to basically
seamlessly use these images that you
have generated using Firefly and make
them fit for your brand. Here's a
practical way that you could use Adobe
Firefly and specifically the boards
feature within Adobe Firefly and use
that in conjunction with Adobe Express.
First, you're going to open up Firefly
boards like we talked about earlier and
you're going to use that as a source of
inspiration, as a place where you can
bring all of your different ideas and
inspiration and all of your different
reference photos together in one central
location. Then step two is you're going
to use text to image inside of your
board to again use the board as
inspiration, but to generate outputs,
visual images inside Adobe Firefly that
have slight different variations, and
you can again experiment and play around
uh with different styles and different
looks until you get one that you really
like. And of course, because you're
still in Firefly, you have access to all
of those generative tools. So you can
remove different parts of the images,
add things to the image, or expand the
image to resize it however you like.
Again, this is basically your play
around phase. This is your I have my
taste. I have my preferences. Let me
generate a few different images to see
what I can create that fits my taste and
my vibe. And then once you do that in
Firefly, you can bring the output that
you're happy with into Express to put
those final touches on it. So once
you're in Adobe Express, you can then
drag those images into any of the
hundreds of templates that they offer.
Then you can easily add text on top of
any of these images. And the text can
automatically fit your brand kit and
guidelines that you have already set up
in Adobe Express. To break down
everything we've covered in this video,
I thought this little table would be
helpful here. At the top, we have the
three primary tools that we talked about
today. Adobe Firefly, Firefly Boards,
and Adobe Express. And then over on the
lefth hand side, we have primary use,
what it's best for, the key beginner
features, and then what's included in
the free tier down at the bottom.
Basically, if I were to summarize this
entire video in just one sentence, it
would be that you can use Adobe Firefly
boards to figure out what you're making
and what you want it to look like. And
then you use Adobe Firefly itself to
make it or create the images. And then
you use Adobe Express to put the final
polishing touches so that it's ready to
be posted on Instagram. And this is all
very beginner friendly because it's
intuitive, it's easy to use, and it
doesn't require a huge setup. And it's
also beginner friendly because it's
budget friendly. And I know we haven't
really talked much about budget or
spending money today, but a lot of these
tools and capabilities and features that
I've been discussing are available on
the free tier of Adobe. Even on Adobe
Fireflyy's free tier, you get generative
credits that restock daily so that every
single 24-hour period, you have the
opportunity to create new images and
play around and come up with different
expressions of what you might be looking
for. And even Adobe Express's free tier
includes access to templates and a lot
of the AI features that I've talked
about in today's episode. So, like I
said, if you're a beginner, the Adobe
ecosystem and specifically Adobe Firefly
and Adobe Express are really a great
solution that I would recommend looking
into. And that's why if someone were to
ask me what is the best beginner image
editor in 2026, I would recommend Adobe
Firefly with Adobe Express as the
natural next step in the workflow. Not
because they're the perfect tool or
they're the tool that has every single
feature possible, but because they're
the best tool to help you get started,
to help you get the ball rolling, to
help you figure out what you want to do
when you're like, I don't even know
where to begin. Firefly handles the
creative heavy lifting so that the
inspiration and the taste and the
preferences can come from you. But the
actual creation, the pen to paper, the I
want to get what's in my brain into an
actual visual way that I can look at,
that is what's handled via Adobe
Firefly. And then you can use Express
once you're happy with the output to put
those final touches on it so that it's
ready to actually be used on social
media. If you want to try Adobe Firefly
and or Adobe Express, I will put links
down in the description below. And
again, I want to thank Adobe for
sponsoring this video because as someone
who is a beginner image generator
themselves, it was so helpful for me to
be able to experiment and then learn
these things and then teach them back to
you. And if you enjoyed today's episode,
don't forget to hit that thumbs up
button as well. Thank you so much for
being here and as always, happy
networking.